1. Why is I/O tricky for a programmer?
    - Variety of input and output sources
    - Output must be clear
    - Inputting is error-prone [disk read error, file location, format]
    - UTF 8 and other encoding schemes

2. What does the notation << hex do?
    Enables manipulator hex for cout. All numbers
    printed will be in hexadecimal form

3. What are hexadecimal numbers used for in computer science? Why?
    Outputting Hardware related information
    Fixed digit and size relation
    - Used as one digit gives exactly a 4 bit value
    - 2 digits => 1 byte

4. Name some of the options you may want to implement for formatting
integer output
    hex
    oct
    fixed
    scientific
    showbase / noshowbase

5. What is a manipulator?
    Terms used to change behaviour of a stream

6. What is the prefix for decimal? For octal? For hexadecimal?
    decimal: ''
    octal: '0'
    hexadecimal: '0x'

7. What is the default output format for floating-point values?
    defaultfloat - chooses between scientific and fixed notation

8. What is a field?
    Mechanism to specify how many character positions a data type takes when printed

9. Explain what setprecision() and setw() do.
    setw() - set field width (characters occupied) by a value
    setprecision() - set precision (number of digits of value to show)

10. What is the purpose of file open modes?
    Specify the method of interacting with file. i.e read/write/append/binary/seek to end

11. Which of the following manipulators does not "stick": hex,
scientific, setprecision(), showbase, setw?
    setw()

12. What is the difference between character I/O and binary I/O?
    Character IO reads/writes file contents as character sequences
    Binary IO reads/writes bytes directly from files

13. Give an example of when it would probably be beneficial to use a
binary file instead of a text file.
    Image / mp3 file

14. Give two examples where a stringstream can be useful.
    Seperate processing from I/O. Make a custom string into an i/o stream
    - Get integers from a log file
    - Output to a GUI system

15. What is a file position?
    Bytes are numbered 0 upwards
    Position of a byte will be its numeric index

16. What happens if you position a file position beyond the end of file?
    Undefined behaviour

17. When would you prefer line-oriented input to type-specific input?
    - read an entire line
    - whitespace is not consistently defined to seperate values
    - consider newline different from simple whitespace

18. What does isalnum(c) do?
    Returns if character c is alphanumeric [A-Z, a-z, 0-9]