1. Who uses numerics?
    everyone scientists, programmers, engineers, mathematicians, or even general users

2. What is precision?
    the number of decimal digits upto which the number is correct numerically

3. What is overflow?
    when a number exceeds the bound of its maximum/minimum value it "overflows/underflows" onto its minimum/maximum value

4. What is a common size of a double? Of an int?
    8, 4

5. How can you detect overflow?
    for a + b: if(a > INT_MAX - b) // overflow

6. Where do you find numeric limits, such as the largest int?
    In <limits>, <climits>, <limits.h>, and <float.h>

7. What is an array? A row? A column?
    sequence of elements contiguous in memory, where an element can be accessed by its index (position)

    row: all elements with the same y-coordinate
    column: all elements with the same x-coordinate

8. What is a C-style multidimensional array?
    arrays in which the elements are arrays themselves
    elements are contiguous in memory row wise

    int arr[dim1][dim2][dim3]

9. What are the desirable properties of language support (e.g., a library) for matrix computation?
10. What is a dimension of a matrix?
11. How many dimensions can a matrix have (in theory/math)?
12. What is a slice?
13. What is a broadcast operation? List a few.
14. What is the difference between Fortran-style and C-style subscripting?
15. How do you apply an operation to each element of a matrix? Give examples.
16. What is a fused operation?
17. Define dot product.
18. What is linear algebra?
19. What is Gaussian elimination?
20. What is a pivot? (In linear algebra? In “real life”?)

21. What makes a number random?
    What we often need, and what we often refer to as random num-
    bers, is a sequence of numbers that conform to some distribution and where you 
    cannot easily predict the next number in the sequence given the previous ones.    

22. What is a uniform distribution?
    The uniform distribution is a continuous probability distribution and is concerned with events that are equally likely to occur

23. Where do you find the standard mathematical functions? For which argument types are they defined?
    cmath
    int, float, double, long double, complex

24. What is the imaginary part of a complex number?
    a + ib:
    a: real component
    b: imaginary component

    where i (iota) is defined as sqrt(-1)

    the need of complex numbers arises from the fact that not all polynomials have
    all real roots (remaining roots are complex roots with non zero imaginary components), such that the fundamental theorem
    of algebra holds true

    fundamental theorem of algebra:
    every non-zero, single-variable, degree n polynomial with complex coefficients has,
    counted with multiplicity, exactly n complex roots

25. What is the square root of -1?
    iota in complex number system
    nan (i.e undefined) in real number system